<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Act III</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction z3998:drama">
		<section id="act-3" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2>
				<span epub:type="label">Act</span>
				<span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">III</span>
			</h2>
			<section id="scene-3-1" epub:type="z3998:scene">
				<h3>
					<span epub:type="label">Scene</span>
					<span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</span>
				</h3>
				<p>A room in <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Peter Teazle’s</b> house.</p>
				<table>
					<tbody>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Peter Teazle</b>, <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Oliver Surface</b>, and <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Rowley</b>.</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Peter</td>
							<td>Well, then we will see this fellow first, and have our wine afterwards. — But how is this, Master Rowley? I don’t see the jet of your scheme.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Rowley</td>
							<td>Why, sir, this <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Stanley, whom I was speaking of, is nearly related to them by their mother. He was once a merchant in Dublin, but has been ruined by a series of undeserved misfortunes. He has applied, by letter, both to <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Surface and Charles: from the former he has received nothing but evasive promises of future service, while Charles has done all that his extravagence has left him power to do; and he is, at this time, endeavouring to raise a sum of money, part of which, in the midst of his own distresses, I know he intends for the service of poor Stanley.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Oliver</td>
							<td>Ah! he is my brother’s son.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Peter</td>
							<td>Well, but how is Sir Oliver personally to⁠—</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Rowley</td>
							<td>
								<p>Why, sir, I will inform Charles and his brother, that Stanley has obtained permission to apply personally to his friends; and, as they have neither of them ever seen him, let Sir Oliver assume his character, and he will have a fair opportunity of judging, at least, of the benevolence of their dispositions: and believe me, sir, you will find in the youngest brother one who, in the midst of folly and dissipation, has still as our immortal bard expresses it⁠—</p>
								<blockquote epub:type="z3998:verse">
									<p>
										<span class="i2">“a heart to pity, and a hand,</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Open as day, for melting charity.”</span>
									</p>
								</blockquote>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Peter</td>
							<td>Pshaw! What signifies his having an open hand or purse either, when he has nothing left to give? Well, well⁠—make the trial, if you please. But where is the fellow whom you brought for Sir Oliver to examine, relative to Charles’s affairs?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Rowley</td>
							<td>Below, waiting his commands, and no one can give him better intelligence. — This, Sir Oliver, is a friendly Jew, who, to do him justice, has done everything in his power to bring your nephew to a proper sense of his extravagance.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Peter</td>
							<td>Pray let us have him in.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Rowley</td>
							<td>Desire <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Moses to walk upstairs. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Apart to <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Servant</b>.</i></td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Peter</td>
							<td>But, pray, why should you suppose he will speak the truth?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Rowley</td>
							<td>Oh, I have convinced him that he has no chance of recovering certain sums advanced to Charles but through the bounty of Sir Oliver, who he knows is arrived; so that you may depend on his fidelity to his own interests. I have also another evidence in my power, one Snake, whom I have detected in a matter little short of forgery, and shall shortly produce to remove some of your prejudices, Sir Peter, relative to Charles and Lady Teazle.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Peter</td>
							<td>I have heard too much on that subject.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Rowley</td>
							<td>Here comes the honest Israelite. —</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Moses</b>.</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>—This is Sir Oliver.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Oliver</td>
							<td>Sir, I understand you have lately had great dealings with my nephew Charles.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Moses</td>
							<td>Yes, Sir Oliver, I have done all I could for him; but he was ruined before he came to me for assistance.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Oliver</td>
							<td>That was unlucky, truly; for you have had no opportunity of showing your talents.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Moses</td>
							<td>None at all; I hadn’t the pleasure of knowing his distresses till he was some thousands worse than nothing.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Oliver</td>
							<td>Unfortunate, indeed!⁠—But I suppose you have done all in your power for him, honest Moses?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Moses</td>
							<td>Yes, he knows that. — This very evening I was to have brought him a gentleman from the city, who does not know him, and will, I believe, advance him some money.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Peter</td>
							<td>What⁠—one Charles has never had money from before?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Moses</td>
							<td>Yes, <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Premium, of Crutched Friars, formerly a broker.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Peter</td>
							<td>Egad, Sir Oliver, a thought strikes me!⁠—Charles, you say, does not know <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Premium?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Moses</td>
							<td>Not at all.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Peter</td>
							<td>Now then, Sir Oliver, you may have a better opportunity of satisfying yourself than by an old romancing tale of a poor relation! go with my friend Moses, and represent Premium, and then, I’ll answer for it, you’ll see your nephew in all his glory.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Oliver</td>
							<td>Egad, I like this idea better than the other, and I may visit Joseph afterwards as old Stanley.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Peter</td>
							<td>True⁠—so you may.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Rowley</td>
							<td>Well, this is taking Charles rather at a disadvantage, to be sure. However, Moses, you understand Sir Peter, and will be faithful?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Moses</td>
							<td>You may depend upon me. — <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Looks at his watch.</i> This is near the time I was to have gone.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Oliver</td>
							<td>I’ll accompany you as soon as you please, Moses But hold! I have forgot one thing⁠—how the plague shall I be able to pass for a Jew?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Moses</td>
							<td>There’s no need⁠—the principal is Christian.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Oliver</td>
							<td>Is he? I’m very sorry to hear it. But, then again, an’t I rather too smartly dressed to look like a moneylender?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Peter</td>
							<td>Not at all: ’t would not be out of character, if you went in your own carriage⁠—would it, Moses?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Moses</td>
							<td>Not in the least.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Oliver</td>
							<td>Well, but how must I talk? there’s certainly some cant of usury and mode of treating that I ought to know.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Peter</td>
							<td>Oh, there’s not much to learn. The great point, as I take it, is to be exorbitant enough in your demands. Hey, Moses?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Moses</td>
							<td>Yes, that’s a very great point.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Oliver</td>
							<td>I’ll answer for ’t I’ll not be wanting in that. I’ll ask him eight or ten percent on the loan, at least.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Moses</td>
							<td>If you ask him no more than that, you’ll be discovered immediately.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Oliver</td>
							<td>Hey!⁠—what the plague⁠—how much then?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Moses</td>
							<td>That depends upon the circumstances. If he appears not very anxious for the supply, you should require only forty or fifty percent; but if you find him in great distress, and want the moneys very bad, you may ask double.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Peter</td>
							<td>A good honest trade you’re learning, Sir Oliver!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Oliver</td>
							<td>Truly, I think so⁠—and not unprofitable.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Moses</td>
							<td>Then, you know, you haven’t the moneys yourself, but are forced to borrow them for him of a friend.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Oliver</td>
							<td>Oh! I borrow it of a friend, do I?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Moses</td>
							<td>And your friend is an unconscionable dog: but you can’t help that.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Oliver</td>
							<td>My friend an unconscionable dog, is he?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Moses</td>
							<td>Yes, and he himself has not the moneys by him, but is forced to sell stock at a great loss.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Oliver</td>
							<td>He is forced to sell stock at a great loss, is he? Well, that’s very kind of him.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Peter</td>
							<td>I’faith, Sir Oliver⁠—<abbr>Mr.</abbr> Premium, I mean⁠—you’ll soon be master of the trade. But, Moses! would not you have him run out a little against the Annuity Bill?<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-10" id="noteref-10" epub:type="noteref">10</a> That would be in character, I should think.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Moses</td>
							<td>Very much.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Rowley</td>
							<td>And lament that a young man now must be at years of discretion before he is suffered to ruin himself.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Moses</td>
							<td>Ay, great pity.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Peter</td>
							<td>And abuse the public for allowing merit to an act whose only object is to snatch misfortune and imprudence from the rapacious grip of usury, and give the minor a chance of inheriting his estate without being undone by coming into possession.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Oliver</td>
							<td>So, so⁠—Moses shall give me farther instructions as we go together.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Peter</td>
							<td>You will not have much time, for your nephew lives hard by.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Oliver</td>
							<td>Oh, never fear! my tutor appears so able, that though Charles lived in the next street, it must be my own fault if I am not a complete rogue before I turn the corner.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit with <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Moses</b>.</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Peter</td>
							<td>So, now, I think Sir Oliver will be convinced: you are partial, Rowley, and would have prepared Charles for the other plot.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Rowley</td>
							<td>No, upon my word, Sir Peter.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Peter</td>
							<td>Well, go bring me this Snake, and I’ll hear what he has to say presently. — I see Maria, and want to speak with her. —</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Rowley</b>.</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>I should be glad to be convinced my suspicions of Lady Teazle and Charles were unjust. I have never yet opened my mind on this subject to my friend Joseph⁠—I am determined I will do it⁠—he will give me his opinion sincerely.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Maria</b>.</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>So, child, has <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Surface returned with you?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Maria</td>
							<td>No, sir; he was engaged.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Peter</td>
							<td>Well, Maria, do you not reflect, the more you converse with that amiable young man, what return his partiality for you deserves?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Maria</td>
							<td>Indeed, Sir Peter, your frequent importunity on this subject distresses me extremely⁠—you compel me to declare that I know no man who has ever paid me a particular attention whom I would not prefer to <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Surface.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Peter</td>
							<td>So⁠—here’s perverseness!⁠—No, no, Maria, ’tis Charles only whom you would prefer. ’T is evident his vices and follies have won your heart.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Maria</td>
							<td>This is unkind, sir. You know I have obeyed you in neither seeing nor corresponding with him: I have heard enough to convince me that he is unworthy my regard. Yet I cannot think it culpable, if, while my understanding severely condemns his vices, my heart suggests some pity for his distresses.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Peter</td>
							<td>Well, well, pity him as much as you please; but give your heart and hand to a worthier object.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Maria</td>
							<td>Never to his brother!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Peter</td>
							<td>Go, perverse and obstinate! But take care, madam; you have never yet known what the authority of a guardian is: don’t compel me to inform you of it.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Maria</td>
							<td>I can only say you shall not have just reason. ’T is true, by my father’s will, I am for a short period bound to regard you as his substitute; but must cease to think you so, when you would compel me to be miserable.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Maria</b>.</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Peter</td>
							<td>Was ever man so crossed as I am? everything conspiring to fret me! I had not been involved in matrimony a fortnight, before her father, a hale and hearty man, died, on purpose, I believe, for the pleasure of plaguing me with the care of his daughter. — <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><b epub:type="z3998:persona">Lady Teazle</b> sings without.</i> But here comes my helpmate! She appears in great good humour. How happy I should be if I could tease her into loving me, though but a little!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Lady Teazle</b>.</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Lady Teazle</td>
							<td>Lud! Sir Peter, I hope you haven’t been quarrelling Maria? It is not using me well to be ill-humoured when I am not by.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Peter</td>
							<td>Ah, Lady Teazle, you might have the power to make me good-humoured at all times.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Lady Teazle</td>
							<td>I am sure I wish I had; for I want you to be in a charming sweet temper at this moment. Do be good-humoured now, and let me have two hundred pounds, will you?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Peter</td>
							<td>Two hundred pounds; what, an’t I to be in a good humour without paying for it! But speak to me thus, and i’ faith there’s nothing I could refuse you. You shall have it; but seal me a bond for the repayment.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Lady Teazle</td>
							<td>Oh, no⁠—there⁠—my note of hand will do as well. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Offering her hand.</i></td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Peter</td>
							<td>And you shall no longer reproach me with not giving you an independent settlement. I mean shortly to surprise you:⁠—but shall we always live thus, hey?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Lady Teazle</td>
							<td>If you please. I’m sure I don’t care how soon we leave off quarrelling, provided you’ll own you were tired first.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Peter</td>
							<td>Well⁠—then let our future contest be, who shall be most obliging.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Lady Teazle</td>
							<td>I assure you, Sir Peter, good nature becomes you. You look now as you did before we were married, when you used to walk with me under the elms, and tell me stories of what a gallant you were in your youth, and chuck me under the chin, you would; and ask me if I thought I could love an old fellow who would deny me nothing⁠—didn’t you?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Peter</td>
							<td>Yes, yes, and you were as kind and attentive⁠—</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Lady Teazle</td>
							<td>Ay, so I was, and would always take your part, when my acquaintance used to abuse you, and turn you into ridicule.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Peter</td>
							<td>Indeed!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Lady Teazle</td>
							<td>Ay, and when my cousin Sophy has called you a stiff, peevish old bachelor, and laughed at me for thinking of marrying one who might be my father, I have always defended you⁠—and said, I didn’t think you so ugly by any means.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Peter</td>
							<td>Thank you.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Lady Teazle</td>
							<td>And I dared say you’d make a very good sort of a husband.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Peter</td>
							<td>And you prophesied right; and we shall now be the happiest couple⁠—</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Lady Teazle</td>
							<td>And never differ again?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Peter</td>
							<td>No, never!<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-11" id="noteref-11" epub:type="noteref">11</a>⁠—though at the same time, indeed, my dear Lady Teazle, you must watch your temper very seriously; for in all our little quarrels, my dear, if you recollect, my love, you always began first.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Lady Teazle</td>
							<td>I beg your pardon, my dear Sir Peter: indeed you always gave the provocation.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Peter</td>
							<td>Now see, my angel! take care⁠—contradicting isn’t the way to keep friends.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Lady Teazle</td>
							<td>Then don’t you begin it, my love!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Peter</td>
							<td>There, now! you⁠—you are going on. You don’t perceive, my life, that you are just doing the very thing which you know always makes me angry.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Lady Teazle</td>
							<td>Nay, you know if you will be angry without any reason, my dear⁠—</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Peter</td>
							<td>There! now you want to quarrel again.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Lady Teazle</td>
							<td>No, I’m sure I don’t: but if you will be so peevish⁠—</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Peter</td>
							<td>There now! who begins first?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Lady Teazle</td>
							<td>Why, you, to be sure. I said nothing⁠—but there’s no bearing your temper.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Peter</td>
							<td>No, no, madam: the fault’s in your own temper.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Lady Teazle</td>
							<td>Ay, you are just what my cousin Sophy said you would be.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Peter</td>
							<td>Your cousin Sophy is a forward, impertinent gipsy.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Lady Teazle</td>
							<td>You are a great bear, I’m sure, to abuse my relations.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Peter</td>
							<td>Now may all the plagues of marriage be doubled on me, if ever I try to be friends with you any more!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Lady Teazle</td>
							<td>So much the better.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Peter</td>
							<td>No, no, madam: ’tis evident you never cared a pin for me, and I was a madman to marry you⁠—a pert, rural coquette, that had refused half the honest ’squires in the neighbourhood!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Lady Teazle</td>
							<td>And I am sure I was a fool to marry you⁠—an old dangling bachelor, who was single at fifty, only because he never could meet with anyone who would have him.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Peter</td>
							<td>Ay, ay, madam; but you were pleased enough to listen to me: you never had such an offer before.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Lady Teazle</td>
							<td>No! didn’t I refuse Sir Tivy Terrier, who everybody said would have been a better match? for his estate is just as good as yours, and he has broke his neck since we have been married.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Peter</td>
							<td>I have done with you, madam! You are an unfeeling, ungrateful⁠—but there’s an end of everything. I believe you capable of everything that is bad. Yes, madam, I now believe the reports relative to you and Charles, madam. Yes, madam, you and Charles are⁠—not without grounds⁠—</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Lady Teazle</td>
							<td>Take care, Sir Peter! you had better not insinuate any such thing! I’ll not be suspected without cause, I promise you.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Peter</td>
							<td>Very well, madam! very well! A separate maintenance as soon as you please. Yes, madam, or a divorce! I’ll make an example of myself for the benefit of all old bachelors. Let us separate, madam.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Lady Teazle</td>
							<td>Agreed! agreed! And now, my dear Sir Peter, we are of a mind once more, we may be the happiest couple, and never differ again, you know: ha! ha! ha! Well, you are going to be in a passion, I see, and I shall only interrupt you⁠—so, by! by!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit.</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Peter</td>
							<td>Plagues and tortures! Can’t I make her angry either! Oh, I am the most miserable fellow! But I’ll not bear her presuming to keep her temper: no! she may break my heart, but she shan’t keep her temper.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit.</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
					</tbody>
				</table>
			</section>
			<section id="scene-3-2" epub:type="z3998:scene">
				<h3>
					<span epub:type="label">Scene</span>
					<span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</span>
				</h3>
				<p>A room in <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Charles Surface’s</b> house.</p>
				<table>
					<tbody>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Trip</b>, <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Moses</b>, and <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Oliver Surface</b>.</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Trip</td>
							<td>Here, Master Moses! if you’ll stay a moment, I’ll try whether⁠—what’s the gentleman’s name?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Oliver</td>
							<td><abbr>Mr.</abbr> Moses, what is my name? <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Aside to <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Moses</b>.</i></td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Moses</td>
							<td><abbr>Mr.</abbr> Premium.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Trip</td>
							<td>Premium⁠—Very well.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Trip</b>, taking snuff.</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Oliver</td>
							<td>To judge by the servants, one wouldn’t believe the master was ruined. But what!⁠—sure, this was my brother’s house?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Moses</td>
							<td>Yes, sir; <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Charles bought it of <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Joseph, with the furniture, pictures, <abbr>etc.</abbr>, just as the old gentleman left it. Sir Peter thought it a piece of extravagance in him.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Oliver</td>
							<td>In my mind, the other’s economy in selling it to him was more reprehensible by half.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Reenter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Trip</b>.</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Trip</td>
							<td>My master says you must wait, gentlemen: he has company, and can’t speak with you yet.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Oliver</td>
							<td>If he knew who it was wanted to see him, perhaps he would not send such a message?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Trip</td>
							<td>Yes, yes, sir; he knows you are here⁠—I did not forget little Premium: no, no, no.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Oliver</td>
							<td>Very well; and I pray, sir, what may be your name?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Trip</td>
							<td>Trip, sir; my name is Trip, at your service.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Oliver</td>
							<td>Well, then, <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Trip, you have a pleasant sort of place here, I guess?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Trip</td>
							<td>Why, yes⁠—here are three or four of us pass our time agreeably enough; but then our wages are sometimes a little in arrear⁠—and not very great either⁠—but fifty pounds a year, and find our own bags and bouquets!<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-12" id="noteref-12" epub:type="noteref">12</a></td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Oliver</td>
							<td>Bags and bouquets! halters and bastinadoes. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Aside.</i></td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Trip</td>
							<td>And apropos, Moses⁠—have you been able to get me that little bill discounted?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Oliver</td>
							<td>Wants to raise money too!⁠—mercy on me! Has his distresses too, I warrant, like a lord, and affects creditors and duns. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Aside.</i></td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Moses</td>
							<td>’T was not to be done, indeed, <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Trip.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Trip</td>
							<td>Good lack, you surprise me! My friend Brush has endorsed it, and I thought when he put his name at the back of a bill ’twas the same as cash.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Moses</td>
							<td>No, ’t wouldn’t do.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Trip</td>
							<td>A small sum⁠—but twenty pounds. Hark’ee, Moses, do you think you couldn’t get it me by way of annuity?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Oliver</td>
							<td>An annuity! ha! ha! a footman raise money by way of annuity! Well done, luxury, egad! <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Aside.</i></td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Moses</td>
							<td>Well, but you must insure your place.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Trip</td>
							<td>Oh, with all my heart! I’ll insure my place and my life too, if you please.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Oliver</td>
							<td>It is more than I would your neck. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Aside.</i></td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Moses</td>
							<td>But is there nothing you could deposit?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Trip</td>
							<td>Why, nothing capital of my master’s wardrobe has dropped lately; but I could give you a mortgage on some of his winter clothes, with equity of redemption before November⁠—or you shall have the reversion of the French velvet,<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-13" id="noteref-13" epub:type="noteref">13</a> or a post-obit on the blue and silver;⁠—these, I should think, Moses, with a few pair of point ruffles, as a collateral security⁠—hey, my little fellow?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Moses</td>
							<td>Well, well. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Bell rings.</i></td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Trip</td>
							<td>Egad, I heard the bell! I believe, gentlemen, I can now introduce you. Don’t forget the annuity, little Moses! This way, gentlemen, I’ll insure my place, you know.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Oliver</td>
							<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Aside.</i> If the man be a shadow of the master, this is the temple of dissipation indeed!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exeunt.</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
					</tbody>
				</table>
			</section>
			<section id="scene-3-3" epub:type="z3998:scene">
				<h3>
					<span epub:type="label">Scene</span>
					<span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">III</span>
				</h3>
				<p>Another room in the same.</p>
				<table>
					<tbody>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><b epub:type="z3998:persona">Charles Surface</b>, <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Harry Bumper</b>, <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Careless</b>, and <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Gentlemen</b>, discovered drinking.</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Charles Surface</td>
							<td>’Fore heaven, ’tis true!⁠—there’s the great degeneracy of the age. Many of our acquaintance have taste, spirit, and politeness; but, plague on’t, they won’t drink.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Careless</td>
							<td>It is so, indeed, Charles! they give in to all the substantial luxuries of the table, and abstain from nothing but wine and wit. Oh, certainly society suffers by it intolerably! for now, instead of the social spirit of raillery that used to mantle over a glass of bright Burgundy, their conversation is become just like the Spa-water they drink, which has all the pertness and flatulency of champagne, without its spirit or flavour.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">1st Gentleman</td>
							<td>But what are they to do who love play better than wine?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Careless</td>
							<td>True! there’s Sir Harry diets himself for gaining, and is now under a hazard regimen.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Charles Surface</td>
							<td>Then he’ll have the worst of it. What! you wouldn’t train a horse for the course by keeping him from corn? For my part, egad, I am never so successful as when I am a little merry: let me throw on a bottle of champagne, and I never lose.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">All</td>
							<td>Hey, what?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Charles Surface</td>
							<td>At least I never feel my losses, which is exactly the same thing.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">2nd Gentleman</td>
							<td>Ay, that I believe.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Charles Surface</td>
							<td>And then, what man can pretend to be a believer in love, who is an abjurer of wine? ’T is the test by which the lover knows his own heart. Fill a dozen bumpers to a dozen beauties, and she that floats at the top is the maid that has bewitched you.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Careless</td>
							<td>Now then, Charles, be honest, and give us your real favourite.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Charles Surface</td>
							<td>Why, I have withheld her only in compassion to you. If I toast her, you must give a round of her peers, which is impossible⁠—on earth.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Careless</td>
							<td>Oh! then we’ll find some canonized vestals or heathen goddesses that will do, I warrant!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Charles Surface</td>
							<td>Here then, bumpers, you rogues! bumpers! Maria! Maria!⁠—</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Harry</td>
							<td>Maria who?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Charles Surface</td>
							<td>Oh, damn the surname!⁠—’tis too formal to be registered in Love’s calendar⁠—Maria!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">All</td>
							<td>Maria!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Charles Surface</td>
							<td>But now, Sir Harry, beware, we must have beauty superlative.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Careless</td>
							<td>Nay, never study, Sir Harry: we’ll stand to the toast, though your mistress should want an eye, and you know you have a song will excuse you.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Harry</td>
							<td>
								<p>Egad, so I have! and I’ll give him the song instead of the lady.<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-14" id="noteref-14" epub:type="noteref">14</a></p>
								<blockquote epub:type="z3998:song">
									<header>
										<p>Song</p>
									</header>
									<p>
										<span>Here’s to the maiden of bashful fifteen;</span>
										<br/>
										<span class="i1">Here’s to the widow of fifty;</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Here’s to the flaunting extravagant quean,</span>
										<br/>
										<span class="i1">And here’s to the housewife that’s thrifty.</span>
									</p>
									<p>
										<span><i>Chorus.</i> Let the toast pass⁠—</span>
										<br/>
										<span class="i1">Drink to the lass,</span>
										<br/>
										<span>I’ll warrant she’ll prove an excuse for the glass.</span>
									</p>
									<p>
										<span>Here’s to the charmer whose dimples we prize;</span>
										<br/>
										<span class="i1">Now to the maid who has none, sir:</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Here’s to the girl with a pair of blue eyes,</span>
										<br/>
										<span class="i1">And here’s to the nymph with but one, sir.</span>
									</p>
									<p>
										<span><i>Chorus.</i> Let the toast pass, <abbr class="eoc">etc.</abbr></span>
									</p>
									<p>
										<span>Here’s to the maid with a bosom of snow:</span>
										<br/>
										<span class="i1">Now to her that’s as brown as a berry,</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Here’s to the wife with a face full of woe,</span>
										<br/>
										<span class="i1">And now to the damsel that’s merry.</span>
									</p>
									<p>
										<span><i>Chorus.</i> Let the toast pass, <abbr class="eoc">etc.</abbr></span>
									</p>
									<p>
										<span>For let ’em be clumsy, or let ’em be slim,</span>
										<br/>
										<span class="i1">Young or ancient, I care not a feather;</span>
										<br/>
										<span>So fill a pint bumper quite up to the brim,</span>
										<br/>
										<span>So fill up your glasses, nay, fill to the brim,</span>
										<br/>
										<span class="i1">And let us e’en toast them together.</span>
									</p>
									<p>
										<span><i>Chorus.</i> Let the toast pass, <abbr class="eoc">etc.</abbr></span>
									</p>
								</blockquote>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">All</td>
							<td>Bravo! bravo!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Trip</b>, and whispers <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Charles Surface</b>.</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Charles Surface</td>
							<td>Gentlemen, you must excuse me a little⁠—Careless, take the chair, will you?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Careless</td>
							<td>Nay, prithee, Charles, what now? This is one of your peerless beauties, I suppose, has dropped in by chance?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Charles Surface</td>
							<td>No, faith! To tell you the truth, ’tis a Jew and a broker, who are come by appointment.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Careless</td>
							<td>Oh, damn it! let’s have the Jew in.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">1st Gentleman</td>
							<td>Ay, and the broker too, by all means.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">2nd Gentleman</td>
							<td>Yes, yes, the Jew and the broker.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Charles Surface</td>
							<td>Egad, with all my heart!⁠—Trip, bid the gentlemen walk in. —</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Trip</b>.</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>Though there’s one of them a stranger, I can tell you.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Careless</td>
							<td>Charles, let us give them some generous Burgundy, and perhaps they’ll grow conscientious.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Charles Surface</td>
							<td>Oh, hang ’em, no! wine does but draw forth a man’s natural qualities; and to make them drink would only be to whet their knavery.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Reenter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Trip</b>, with <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Oliver Surface</b> and <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Moses</b>.</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Charles Surface</td>
							<td>So, honest Moses; walk in, pray, <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Premium⁠—that’s the gentleman’s name, isn’t it, Moses?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Moses</td>
							<td>Yes, sir.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Charles Surface</td>
							<td>Set chairs, Trip.⁠—Sit down, <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Premium.⁠—Glasses, Trip.⁠—</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Gives chairs and glasses, and exit.</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>Sit down, Moses.⁠—Come, <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Premium, I’ll give you a sentiment; here’s <em>Success to usury!</em>⁠—Moses, fill the gentleman a bumper.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Moses</td>
							<td>
								<em>Success to usury!</em>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Drinks.</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Careless</td>
							<td>Right, Moses⁠—usury is prudence and industry, and deserves to succeed.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Oliver</td>
							<td>Then⁠—<em>here’s all the success it deserves!</em> <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Drinks.</i></td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Careless</td>
							<td>No, no, that won’t do! <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Premium, you have demurred at the toast, and must drink it in a pint bumper.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">1st Gentleman</td>
							<td>A pint bumper, at least.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Moses</td>
							<td>Oh, pray, sir, consider⁠—<abbr>Mr.</abbr> Premium’s a gentleman.<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-15" id="noteref-15" epub:type="noteref">15</a></td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Careless</td>
							<td>And therefore loves good wine.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">2nd Gentleman</td>
							<td>Give Moses a quart glass⁠—this is mutiny, and a high contempt for the chair.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Careless</td>
							<td>Here, now for ’t! I’ll see justice done, to the last drop of my bottle.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Oliver</td>
							<td>Nay, pray, gentlemen⁠—I did not expect this usage.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Charles Surface</td>
							<td>No, hang it, you shan’t; <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Premium’s a stranger.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Oliver</td>
							<td>Odd! I wish I was well out of their company. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Aside.</i></td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Careless</td>
							<td>Plague on ’em! if they won’t drink, we’ll not sit down with them. Come, Harry, the dice are in the next room.⁠—Charles, you’ll join us when you have finished your business with the gentlemen?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Charles Surface</td>
							<td>I will! I will!⁠—</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exeunt <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Harry Bumper</b> and <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Gentlemen</b>; <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Careless</b> following.</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>Careless!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Careless</td>
							<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Returning.</i> Well!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Charles Surface</td>
							<td>Perhaps I may want you.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Careless</td>
							<td>Oh, you know I am always ready: word, note, or bond, ’tis all the same to me.⁠—</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit.</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Moses</td>
							<td>Sir, this is <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Premium, a gentleman of the strictest honour and secrecy; and always performs what he undertakes. <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Premium, this is⁠—</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Charles Surface</td>
							<td>Pshaw! have done. Sir, my friend Moses is a very honest fellow, but a little slow at expression: he’ll be an hour giving us our titles. <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Premium, the plain state of the matter is this: I am an extravagant young fellow who wants to borrow money; you I take to be a prudent old fellow, who have got money to lend. I am blockhead enough to give fifty percent sooner than not have it; and you, I presume, are rogue enough to take a hundred if you can get it. Now, sir, you see we are acquainted at once, and may proceed to business without farther ceremony.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Oliver</td>
							<td>Exceeding frank, upon my word. I see, sir, you are not a man of many compliments.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Charles Surface</td>
							<td>Oh, no, sir! plain dealing in business I always think best.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Oliver</td>
							<td>Sir, I like you the better for it. However, you are mistaken in one thing; I have no money to lend, but I believe I could procure some of a friend; but then he’s an unconscionable dog. Isn’t he, Moses?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Moses</td>
							<td>But you can’t help that.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Oliver</td>
							<td>And must sell stock to accommodate you. — Mustn’t he, Moses?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Moses</td>
							<td>Yes, indeed! You know I always speak the truth, and scorn to tell a lie!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Charles Surface</td>
							<td>Right. People that speak truth generally do. But these are trifles, <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Premium. What! I know money isn’t to be bought without paying for ’t!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Oliver</td>
							<td>Well, but what security could you give? You have no land, I suppose?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Charles Surface</td>
							<td>Not a molehill, nor a twig, but what’s in the bough-pots out of the window!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Oliver</td>
							<td>Nor any stock, I presume?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Charles Surface</td>
							<td>Nothing but live stock⁠—and that’s only a few pointers and ponies. But pray, <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Premium, are you acquainted at all with any of my connections?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Oliver</td>
							<td>Why, to say truth, I am.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Charles Surface</td>
							<td>Then you must know that I have a devilish rich uncle in the East Indies, Sir Oliver Surface, from whom I have the greatest expectations?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Oliver</td>
							<td>That you have a wealthy uncle, I have heard; but how your expectations will turn out is more, I believe, than you can tell.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Charles Surface</td>
							<td>Oh, no!⁠—there can be no doubt. They tell me I’m a prodigious favourite, and that he talks of leaving me everything.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Oliver</td>
							<td>Indeed! this is the first I’ve heard of it.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Charles Surface</td>
							<td>Yes, yes, ’tis just so. — Moses knows ’tis true; don’t you, Moses?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Moses</td>
							<td>Oh, yes! I’ll swear to ’t.<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-16" id="noteref-16" epub:type="noteref">16</a></td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Oliver</td>
							<td>Egad, they’ll persuade me presently I’m at Bengal. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Aside.</i></td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Charles Surface</td>
							<td>Now I propose, <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Premium, if it’s agreeable to you, a post-obit on Sir Oliver’s life; though at the same time the old fellow has been so liberal to me, that I give you my word, I should be very sorry to hear that anything had happened to him.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Oliver</td>
							<td>Not more than I should, I assure you. But the bond you mention happens to be just the worst security you could offer me⁠—for I might live to a hundred and never see the principal.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Charles Surface</td>
							<td>Oh, yes, you would! the moment Sir Oliver dies, you know, you would come on me for the money.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Oliver</td>
							<td>Then I believe I should be the most unwelcome dun you ever had in your life.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Charles Surface</td>
							<td>What! I suppose you’re afraid that Sir Oliver is too good a life?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Oliver</td>
							<td>No, indeed I am not; though I have heard he is as hale and healthy as any man of his years in Christendom.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Charles Surface</td>
							<td>There, again, now you are misinformed. No, no, the climate has hurt him considerably, poor uncle Oliver. Yes, yes, he breaks apace, I’m told⁠—and is so much altered lately that his nearest relations don’t know him.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Oliver</td>
							<td>No! Ha! ha! ha! so much altered lately that his nearest relations don’t know him! Ha! ha! ha! egad⁠—ha! ha! ha!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Charles Surface</td>
							<td>Ha! ha!⁠—you’re glad to hear that, little Premium?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Oliver</td>
							<td>No, no, I’m not.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Charles Surface</td>
							<td>Yes, yes, you are⁠—ha! ha! ha!⁠—you know that mends your chance.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Oliver</td>
							<td>But I’m told Sir Oliver is coming over; nay, some say he is actually arrived.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Charles Surface</td>
							<td>Pshaw! sure I must know better than you whether he’s come or not. No, no, rely on’t he’s at this moment at Calcutta. — Isn’t he, Moses?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Moses</td>
							<td>Oh, yes, certainly.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Oliver</td>
							<td>Very true, as you say, you must know better than I, though I have it from pretty good authority. — Haven’t I, Moses?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Moses</td>
							<td>Yes, most undoubtedly!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Oliver</td>
							<td>But, sir, as I understand, you want a few hundreds immediately⁠—is there nothing you could dispose of?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Charles Surface</td>
							<td>How do you mean?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Oliver</td>
							<td>For instance, now, I have heard that your father left behind him a great quantity of massy old plate.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Charles Surface</td>
							<td>O Lud! that’s gone long ago. Moses can tell you how better than I can.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Oliver</td>
							<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Aside.</i> Good lack! all the family race-cups and corporation-bowls! <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Aloud.</i> Then it was also supposed that his library was one of the most valuable and compact⁠—</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Charles Surface</td>
							<td>Yes, yes, so it was⁠—vastly too much so for a private gentleman. For my part, I was always of a communicative disposition, so I thought it a shame to keep so much knowledge to myself.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Oliver</td>
							<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Aside.</i> Mercy upon me! learning that had run in the family like an heirloom⁠—<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Aloud.</i> Pray, what are become of the books?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Charles Surface</td>
							<td>You must inquire of the auctioneer, Master Premium, for I don’t believe even Moses can direct you.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Moses</td>
							<td>I know nothing of books.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Oliver</td>
							<td>So, so, nothing of the family property left, I suppose?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Charles Surface</td>
							<td>Not much, indeed; unless you have a mind to the family pictures. I have got a room full of ancestors above; and if you have a taste for old paintings, egad, you shall have ’em a bargain!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Oliver</td>
							<td>Hey! what the devil! sure, you wouldn’t sell your forefathers, would you?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Charles Surface</td>
							<td>Every man of them, to the best bidder.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Oliver</td>
							<td>What, your great-uncles and aunts?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Charles Surface</td>
							<td>Ay, and my great-grandfathers and grandmothers too.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Oliver</td>
							<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Aside.</i> Now I give him up!⁠—<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Aloud.</i> What the plague, have you no bowels for your own kindred? Odd’s life! do you take me for Shylock in the play, that you would raise money of me on your own flesh and blood?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Charles Surface</td>
							<td>Nay, my little broker, don’t be angry: what need you care, if you have your money’s worth?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Oliver</td>
							<td>Well, I’ll be the purchaser: I think I can dispose of the family canvas. — <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Aside.</i> Oh, I’ll never forgive him this! never!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Reenter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Careless</b>.</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Careless</td>
							<td>Come, Charles, what keeps you?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Charles Surface</td>
							<td>I can’t come yet. I’faith, we are going to have a sale above-stairs; here’s little Premium will buy all my ancestors!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Careless</td>
							<td>Oh, burn your ancestors!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Charles Surface</td>
							<td>No, he may do that afterwards, if he pleases. Stay, Careless, we want you: egad, you shall be auctioneer⁠—so come along with us.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Careless</td>
							<td>Oh, have with you, if that’s the case. I can handle a hammer as well as a dice-box! Going! going!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Oliver</td>
							<td>Oh, the profligates! <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Aside.</i></td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Charles Surface</td>
							<td>Come, Moses, you shall be appraiser, if we want one. Gad’s life, little Premium, you don’t seem to like the business?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Oliver</td>
							<td>Oh, yes, I do, vastly! Ha! ha! ha! yes, yes, I think it a rare joke to sell one’s family by auction⁠—ha! ha!⁠—<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Aside.</i> Oh, the prodigal!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Charles Surface</td>
							<td>To be sure! when a man wants money, where the plague should he get assistance, if he can’t make free with his own relations?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Oliver</td>
							<td>I’ll never forgive him; never! never!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exeunt.</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
					</tbody>
				</table>
			</section>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
