<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>A Portrait</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="dedication" epub:type="chapter">
			<h1>A Portrait</h1>
			<h3>Addressed to <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Crewe, With the Comedy of the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.play">School for Scandal</i></h3>
			<p>By <abbr class="name">R. B.</abbr> Sheridan, <abbr class="eoc">Esq.</abbr></p>
			<p>
				<span>Tell me, ye prim adepts in Scandal’s school,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who rail by precept, and detract by rule,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Lives there no character, so tried, so known,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So deck’d with grace, and so unlike your own,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That even you assist her fame to raise,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Approve by envy, and by silence praise!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Attend!⁠—a model shall attract your view⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Daughters of calumny, I summon you!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You shall decide if this a portrait prove,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or fond creation of the Muse and Love.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Attend, ye virgin critics, shrewd and sage,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ye matron censors of this childish age,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Whose peering eye and wrinkled front declare</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A fixt antipathy to young and fair;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>By cunning, cautious; or by nature, cold,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In maiden madness, virulently bold!⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Attend! ye skilled to coin the precious tale,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Creating proof, where innuendos fail!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Whose practised memories, cruelly exact,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Omit no circumstance, except the fact!⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Attend, all ye who boast⁠—or old or young⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The living libel of a slanderous tongue!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So shall my theme as far contrasted be,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As saints by fiends, or hymns by calumny.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Come, gentle Amoret (for ’neath that name,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In worthier verse is sung thy beauty’s fame);</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Come⁠—for but thee who seeks the Muse? and while</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Celestial blushes check thy conscious smile,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With timid grace, and hesitating eye,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The perfect model, which I boast, supply:⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Vain Muse! couldst thou the humblest sketch create</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of her, or slightest charm couldst imitate⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Could thy blest strain in kindred colours trace</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The faintest wonder of her form and face⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Poets would study the immortal line,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And <em>Reynolds</em> own his art subdued by thine;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That art, which well might added lustre give</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To Nature’s best and Heaven’s superlative:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On <em>Granby’s</em> cheek might bid new glories rise,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or point a purer beam from <em>Devon’s</em> eyes!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Hard is the task to shape that beauty’s praise,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Whose judgment scorns the homage flattery pays!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But praising Amoret we cannot err,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No tongue o’ervalues Heaven, or flatters her!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yet she, by Fate’s perverseness⁠—she alone</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Would doubt our truth, nor deem such praise her own!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Adorning Fashion, unadorn’d by dress,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Simple from taste, and not from carelessness;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Discreet in gesture, in deportment mild,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Not stiff with prudence, nor uncouthly wild:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No state has <em>Amoret</em>; no studied mien;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She frowns no <em>goddess</em>, and she moves no <em>queen</em>.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The softer charm that in her manner lies</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is framed to captivate, yet not surprise;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It justly suits th’ expression of her face⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>’Tis less than dignity, and more than grace!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On her pure cheek the native hue is such,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That, form’d by Heaven to be admired so much,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The hand divine, with a less partial care,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Might well have fix’d a fainter crimson there,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And bade the gentle inmate of her breast⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Inshrined Modesty⁠—supply the rest.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But who the peril of her lips shall paint?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Strip them of smiles⁠—still, still all words are faint,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But moving Love himself appears to teach</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Their action, though denied to rule her speech;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And thou who seest her speak and dost not hear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Mourn not her distant accents ’scape thine ear;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Viewing those lips, thou still may’st make pretence</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To judge of what she says, and swear ’tis sense:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Cloth’d with such grace, with such expression fraught,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They move in meaning, and they pause in thought!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But dost thou farther watch, with charm’d surprise,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The mild irresolution of her eyes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Curious to mark how frequent they repose,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In brief eclipse and momentary close⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ah! seest thou not an ambush’d Cupid there,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Too tim’rous of his charge, with jealous care</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Veils and unveils those beams of heavenly light,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Too full, too fatal else, for mortal sight?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nor yet, such pleasing vengeance fond to meet,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In pard’ning dimples hope a safe retreat.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>What though her peaceful breast should ne’er allow</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Subduing frowns to arm her alter’d brow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>By Love, I swear, and by his gentle wiles,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>More fatal still the mercy of her smiles!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thus lovely, thus adorn’d, possessing all</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of bright or fair that can to woman fall,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The height of vanity might well be thought</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Prerogative in her, and Nature’s fault.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yet gentle <em>Amoret</em>, in mind supreme</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As well as charms, rejects the vainer theme;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And, half mistrustful of her beauty’s store,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She barbs with wit those darts too keen before:⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Read in all knowledge that her sex should reach,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Though <em>Greville</em>, or the <em>Muse</em>, should deign to teach,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Fond to improve, nor timorous to discern</span>
				<br/>
				<span>How far it is a woman’s grace to learn;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In <em>Millar’s</em> dialect she would not prove</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Apollo’s priestess, but Apollo’s love,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Graced by those signs which truth delights to own,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The timid blush, and mild submitted tone:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Whate’er she says, though sense appear throughout,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Displays the tender hue of female doubt;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Deck’d with that charm, how lovely wit appears,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>How graceful <em>science</em>, when that robe she wears!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Such too her talents, and her bent of mind,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As speak a sprightly heart by thought refined:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A taste for mirth, by contemplation school’d,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A turn for ridicule, by candour ruled,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A scorn of folly, which she tries to hide;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>An awe of talent, which she owns with pride!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Peace, idle Muse! no more thy strain prolong,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But yield a theme thy warmest praises wrong;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Just to her merit, though thou canst not raise</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thy feeble verse, behold th’ acknowledged praise</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Has spread conviction through the envious train,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And cast a fatal gloom o’er Scandal’s reign!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And lo! each pallid hag, with blister’d tongue,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Mutters assent to all thy zeal has sung⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Owns all the colours just⁠—the outline true;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thee my inspirer, and my <em>model</em>⁠—<strong>Crewe!</strong></span>
			</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
