<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Epilogue</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="epilogue" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2>Epilogue</h2>
			<p>By <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Colman</p>
			<p>Spoken by <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Lady Teazle</b></p>
			<p>
				<span>I, who was late so volatile and gay,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Like a trade-wind must now blow all one way,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Bend all my cares, my studies, and my vows,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To one dull rusty weathercock⁠—my spouse!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So wills our virtuous bard⁠—the motley Bayes<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-29" id="noteref-29" epub:type="noteref">29</a></span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of crying epilogues and laughing plays!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Old bachelors, who marry smart young wives,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Learn from our play to regulate your lives:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Each bring his dear to town, all faults upon her⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>London will prove the very source of honour.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Plunged fairly in, like a cold bath it serves,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When principles relax, to brace the nerves:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Such is my case; and yet I must deplore</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That the gay dream of dissipation’s o’er.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And say, ye fair! was ever lively wife,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Born with a genius for the highest life,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Like me untimely blasted in her bloom,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Like me condemn’d to such a dismal doom?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Save money⁠—when I just knew how to waste it!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Leave London⁠—just as I began to taste it!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Must I then watch the early crowing cock,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The melancholy ticking of a clock;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In a lone rustic hall forever pounded,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With dogs, cats, rats, and squalling brats surrounded?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With humble curate can I now retire,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>(While good Sir Peter boozes with the squire,)</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And at backgammon mortify my soul,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That pants for loo, or flutters at a vole?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Seven’s the main! Dear sound that must expire,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Lost at hot cockles round a Christmas fire;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The transient hour of fashion too soon spent,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Farewell the tranquil mind, farewell content!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Farewell the plumed head, the cushion’d tête,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That takes the cushion from its proper seat!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That spirit-stirring drum!⁠—card drums I mean,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Spadille⁠—odd trick⁠—pam⁠—basto⁠—king and queen!<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-30" id="noteref-30" epub:type="noteref">30</a></span>
				<br/>
				<span>And you, ye knockers, that, with brazen throat,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The welcome visitors’ approach denote;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Farewell all quality of high renown,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Pride, pomp, and circumstance of glorious town!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Farewell! your revels I partake no more,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And Lady Teazle’s occupation’s o’er!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>All this I told our bard; he smiled, and said ’twas clear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I ought to play deep tragedy next year.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Meanwhile he drew wise morals from his play,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And in these solemn periods stalk’d away:⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Bless’d were the fair like you; her faults who stopp’d,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And closed her follies when the curtain dropp’d!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No more in vice or error to engage,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or play the fool at large on life’s great stage.”</span>
			</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
