<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Prologue</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="prologue" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2>Prologue</h2>
			<p>Written by Mr. Garrick</p>
			<p>
				<span>A School for Scandal! tell me, I beseech you,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Needs there a school this modish art to teach you?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No need of lessons now, the knowing think;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We might as well be taught to eat and drink.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Caused by a dearth of scandal, should the vapours</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Distress our fair ones⁠—let them read the papers;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Their powerful mixtures such disorders hit;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Crave what you will⁠—there’s <i xml:lang="la">quantum sufficit</i>.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Lord!” cries my Lady <em>Wormwood</em> (who loves tattle,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And puts much salt and pepper in her prattle),</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Just risen at noon, all night at cards when threshing</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Strong tea and scandal⁠—“Bless me, how refreshing!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Give me the papers, <em>Lisp</em>⁠—how bold and free! [Sips.]</span>
				<br/>
				<span>
					<em>Last night Lord L. [sips] was caught with Lady D.</em>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For aching heads what charming <i xml:lang="fr">sal volatile</i>! [Sips.]</span>
				<br/>
				<span>
					<em>If Mrs. B. will still continue flirting,</em>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span>
					<em>We hope she’ll <strong>draw</strong>, or we’ll <strong>undraw</strong> the curtain.</em>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Fine satire, poz⁠—in public all abuse it,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But, by ourselves [Sips], our praise we can’t refuse it.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Now, <em>Lisp</em>, read you⁠—there, at that dash and star:”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Yes, ma’am⁠—<em>A certain lord had best beware,</em></span>
				<br/>
				<span>
					<em>Who lives not twenty miles from Grosvenor Square;</em>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span>
					<em>Ror, should he Lady W. find willing,</em>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span><em>Wormwood is bitter</em>”⁠—”Oh! that’s me! the villain!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Throw it behind the fire, and never more</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Let that vile paper come within my door.”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thus at our friends we laugh, who feel the dart;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To reach our feelings, we ourselves must smart.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is our young bard so young, to think that he</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Can stop the full spring-tide of calumny?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Knows he the world so little, and its trade?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Alas! the devil’s sooner raised than laid.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So strong, so swift, the monster there’s no gagging:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Cut Scandal’s head off, still the tongue is wagging.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Proud of your smiles once lavishly bestow’d,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Again our young Don Quixote takes the road;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To show his gratitude he draws his pen,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And seeks his hydra, Scandal, in his den.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For your applause all perils he would through⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He’ll fight⁠—that’s write⁠—a cavalliero true,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Till every drop of blood⁠—that’s ink⁠—is spilt for you.</span>
			</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
